profile/README.md, before:

# Eclipse Platform™

![splash](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/eclipse-platform/eclipse.platform/master/platform/org.eclipse.platform/splash.png)
<br>
[Pull requests](https://github.com/pulls?user=eclipse-platform) |
[Issues](https://github.com/issues?user=eclipse-platform)

Eclipse Platform defines the set of frameworks and common services that collectively make up infrastructure required to support the use of Eclipse as a component model, as a Rich Client Platform (RCP) and as a comprehensive tool integration platform. These services and frameworks include a standard workbench user interface model and portable native widget toolkit, a project model for managing resources, automatic resource delta management for incremental compilers and builders, language-independent debug infrastructure, and infrastructure for distributed multi-user versioned resource management.

It is the base framework for the [Eclipse IDE](https://www.eclipse.org/eclipseide/) and many other applications.

![workbench](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/eclipse-platform/eclipse.platform.common/master/bundles/org.eclipse.platform.doc.isv/guide/images/workbench.png)

See also https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/eclipse.platform and https://eclipse.org/eclipse

## Community 

The Eclipse Platform is an Eclipse Community project so it obeys governance rules described in the [Eclipse Development Process](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/dev_process/) to guarantee meritocracry, diversity, vendor-neutrality and business-friendliness.

Please bear in mind that this project is almost entirely developed by volunteers and is not a product you contracted for. As a result, the contributors may not be able to look into some support requests. As per Eclipse Development Process, the committers are committed to review incoming code contributions though. If you do not provide the fix/implementation yourself (or pay someone to do it for you), the bug might never get fixed. If it is a serious bug, other people than you might care enough to provide a fix. As a consequence of all that, the only sure way to ensure some issue gets fixed or some feature gets implemented is that you contribute it yourself and convince some contributor that the change you submit is in the best interested of the project.

As you contribute more and more, you will eventually get nominated as a committer on the project.

### Reporting issues

The Eclipse Platform project is split into multiple [repositories](https://github.com/orgs/eclipse-platform/repositories) owned by this organization. If you face an issue and have a sense of which particular GitHub repository is most related, you can open your issue against that repository. If you are unsure, you can open an [issue](https://github.com/eclipse-platform/.github/issues) against this repository and the issue will then be moved as best by maintainers.

For errors please provide Stacktrace or [minimal reproducer](https://stackoverflow.com/help/minimal-reproducible-example).

For performance issues attach sampling snapshot (for example with [visualvm](https://visualvm.github.io/download.html)).

### Developing and Contributing

Contributions are always welcome!
See [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/eclipse-platform/.github/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)

Commit message:

Link to I-Builds and snapshots

profile/README.md, after:

# Eclipse Platform™

![splash](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/eclipse-platform/eclipse.platform/master/platform/org.eclipse.platform/splash.png)
<br>
[Pull requests](https://github.com/pulls?user=eclipse-platform) |
[Issues](https://github.com/issues?user=eclipse-platform)

Eclipse Platform defines the set of frameworks and common services that collectively make up infrastructure required to support the use of Eclipse as a component model, as a Rich Client Platform (RCP) and as a comprehensive tool integration platform. These services and frameworks include a standard workbench user interface model and portable native widget toolkit, a project model for managing resources, automatic resource delta management for incremental compilers and builders, language-independent debug infrastructure, and infrastructure for distributed multi-user versioned resource management.

It is the base framework for the [Eclipse IDE](https://www.eclipse.org/eclipseide/) and many other applications.

![workbench](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/eclipse-platform/eclipse.platform.common/master/bundles/org.eclipse.platform.doc.isv/guide/images/workbench.png)

See also https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/eclipse.platform and https://eclipse.org/eclipse

## Community 

The Eclipse Platform is an Eclipse Community project so it obeys governance rules described in the [Eclipse Development Process](https://www.eclipse.org/projects/dev_process/) to guarantee meritocracry, diversity, vendor-neutrality and business-friendliness.

Please bear in mind that this project is almost entirely developed by volunteers and is not a product you contracted for. As a result, the contributors may not be able to look into some support requests. As per Eclipse Development Process, the committers are committed to review incoming code contributions though. If you do not provide the fix/implementation yourself (or pay someone to do it for you), the bug might never get fixed. If it is a serious bug, other people than you might care enough to provide a fix. As a consequence of all that, the only sure way to ensure some issue gets fixed or some feature gets implemented is that you contribute it yourself and convince some contributor that the change you submit is in the best interested of the project.

As you contribute more and more, you will eventually get nominated as a committer on the project.

### Reporting issues

Before reporting an issue, please consider testing the latest build of Eclipse Platform or SDK. [This page](https://download.eclipse.org/eclipse/downloads/) lists latest builds, and links to downloadable product archives and p2 repositories; and if you're using Maven artifacts, snapshots of Eclipse project are available at https://repo.eclipse.org/content/repositories/eclipse-snapshots/ .

The Eclipse Platform project codebase is split into multiple [repositories](https://github.com/orgs/eclipse-platform/repositories) owned by this organization. If you face an issue and have a sense of which particular GitHub repository is most related, you can open your issue against that particular repository. If you are unsure, you can open an [issue](https://github.com/eclipse-platform/.github/issues) against this current repository and the issue will then be moved as best by maintainers.

For errors please provide Stacktrace or [minimal reproducer](https://stackoverflow.com/help/minimal-reproducible-example).

For performance issues attach sampling snapshot (for example with [visualvm](https://visualvm.github.io/download.html)).

### Developing and Contributing

Contributions are always welcome!
See [CONTRIBUTING.md](https://github.com/eclipse-platform/.github/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md)
